# Exercises: Attachment of conditional constructions


### Cinema

	In one cinema room the chairs are arranged in a rectangular shape in r rows and c columns. 
	There are three types of screenings with tickets at different prices:
	
	⦁ Premiere - premiere screening, price 12.00 BGN.
	⦁ Normal - standard screening, priced at BGN 7.50.
	⦁ Discount - screening for children, pupils and students at a reduced price of BGN 5.00.
	
	Write a function that accepts a screening type (string), number of rows and number of columns in the hall
	(integers) and calculates the total ticket revenue when the hall is full. 	
	Print the result in the format as in the examples below, with 2 decimal places.
	
*Sample input and output*

| Input	                     |   Output	     |
|:---                        | :---          |
| (["Premiere","10","12"])   |	1440.00 leva |	 	
| (["Normal","21","13"])     |  2047.50 leva |	 	
| (["Discount","12","30"])   |	1800.00 leva |

	Hint  Use simple checks and elementary calculations. 
	      To output the result with exactly 2 digits after the decimal point, use toFixed(2)

*Guidelines*

	⦁ Convert input numbers from a string to a numeric type.
	⦁ Initialize variable "income" with initial value 0.
	⦁ Do a series of checks, for each projection type ("Premiere, Normal, Discount"),
	assign the corresponding price to the "income" variable and finally print the final result.
 

### Summer clothing

	It is summer with very changeable weather and Victor needs your help.
	Write a function to recommend what clothes Victor should wear based on the time of day and degrees. 
	Your friend has different plans for each stage of the day which also require different looks, 
	you can see these from the table.
	The function receives two arguments:
	⦁ Degrees - an integer in the range [10...42]
	⦁ Text, time of day - with options - "Morning", "Afternoon", "Evening"
	
| Time of day / degrees	| Morning              | Afternoon           | Evening          |
| :---                  | :---                 |:---                 | :---             |
| 10 <= degrees <= 18	| Sweatshirt, Sneakers | Shirt, Moccasins    | Shirt, Moccasins |
| 18 < degrees <= 24    | Shirt, Moccasins     | T-Shirt, Sandals    | Shirt, Moccasins |
| degrees >= 25         | T-Shirt, Sandals     | Swim Suit, Barefoot | Shirt, Moccasins |

	Have the console print one line, "It's {degrees} degrees, get your {clothes} and {shoes}."
	
*Sample input and output*

| Input                 | Output	                                     | Explanations                                       |
| :---                  | :---                                               | :---                                               |
| (["16","Morning"])	| It's 16 degrees, get your Sweatshirt and Sneakers. | In the morning when the temperature is 16 degrees, Victor takes a sweatshirt and sneakers.  | 
| (["28","Evening"])    | It's 28 degrees, get your Shirt and Moccasins.     |                                                    |
| (["22","Afternoon"])  | It's 22 degrees, get your T-Shirt and Sandals.     |                                                    |
		
*Guidelines*

	⦁ Convert input numbers from a string to a numeric type.
	⦁ Initialize two variables "outfit, shoes".
	⦁ Make a degree check using logical operator "and" - "&&" - "degrees >= 10 && degrees <= 18" 
	  and in the body of the degree check, check for the time of day "Morning, Afternoon, Evening",
	  changing the value of the variables "outfit, shoes" for each stage of the day.
	⦁ Print the final result on the console in the format described in the problem statement.
 
### New home

	Marin and Nelly buy a house not far from Sofia. Nellie loves flowers so much that she convinces
	you to write a function to calculate how much it will cost them to plant a certain number of flowers
	and whether the available budget will be enough. Different flowers have different prices. 
	
| Flower | Roses | Dahlias | Tulips | Narcissus	| Gladiolus |
| :---   | :---  | :---    | :---   | :---      | :---      |
| Price	 | 5	 | 3.80	   | 2.80   | 3	        | 2.50      |

	The following discounts are available:
	⦁ If Nellie buys more than 80 Roses - 10% discount from the final price
	⦁ If Nellie buys more than 90 Dahlias - 15% discount off the final price
	⦁ If Nellie buys more than 80 Tulips - 15% discount on the final price
	⦁ If Nellie buys less than 120 Daffodils - the price goes down by 15%
	⦁ If Nellie buys less than 80 Gladioli - the price is discounted by 20%
	The function gets 3 arguments:
	⦁ Type of flowers - text with options - "Roses", "Dahlias", "Tulips", "Narcissus", "Gladiolus"
	⦁ Number of flowers - integer in the range [10...1000]
	⦁ Budget - integer in the range [50...2500]
	To be printed on the console in one line:
	⦁ If their budget is enough - "Hey, you have a great garden with {number of flowers} {type of flowers} and {amount left} left."
	⦁ If their budget is NOT enough - "Not enough money, you need {amount needed} leva more."
	Amount to be formatted to the second decimal place.
	
*Sample input and output*

| Input                       | Output	                                    | Explanations                                       |
| :---                        | :---                                        | :---                                               |
| (["Roses","55","250"])      | Not enough money, you need 25.00 leva more. | Nellie wants 55 Roses. The price per rose is 5lv.therefore for 55 pieces Nelly will have to pay: 55 * 5 = 275. However, it has a budget of 250 BGN. Since 275 > 250 , it does not reach 25 lv.|
| (["Tulips","88","260"])     | Hey, you have a great garden with 88 Tulips and 50.56 leva left. |
| (["Narcissus","119","360"]) | Not enough money, you need 50.55 leva more.                      |

### Boat for fishing

	Tony and friends loved to go fishing, they were so keen on fishing that they decided to go fishing by boat.
	The price for hiring the boat depends on the season and the number of fishermen.
	The price depends on the season:
	⦁ The price for renting the boat in spring is 3000 BGN.
	⦁ The price for renting the vessel in summer and autumn is 4200 BGN.
	⦁ The price for renting the ship in winter is 2600 BGN.
	Depending on the number your group enjoys a discount:
	⦁ If the group is up to and including 6 people - 10% discount.
	⦁ If the group is from 7 to 11 persons inclusive - discount of 15%.
	⦁ If the group is from 12 upwards - discount of 25%. 
	Anglers get an additional 5% discount if they are an even number unless it is autumn - then no additional discount. 
	Write a function to calculate whether the fishermen will raise enough money
	Input
	3 arguments are accepted:
	⦁ Group budget - integer in the range [1...8000]
	⦁ Season - text : "Spring", "Summer", "Autumn", "Winter"
	⦁ Number of fishermen - integer in the range [4...18]
	Output
	To print one line on the console:
	⦁ If the budget is sufficient:
	"Yes! You have {remaining money} left."
	⦁ If the budget is NOT sufficient:
	"Not enough money! You need {amount left over} leva."
	Amounts must be formatted to two decimal places.
	
*Sample input and output*

 Input                      | Output	                               | Explanations                                       |
| :---                      | :---                                     | :---                                               |
| (["3000","Summer","11"])  | Not enough money! You need 570.00 leva.  | Summer fishing tourism costs 4200 BGN, 11 fishermen use 15% discount -> 4200 - 15% = 3570 BGN, there are an odd number and they do not use additional discount,. 3000 <= 3570, therefore they are short 570.00 lv. |
| (["3600","Autumn","6"])   | Not enough money! You need 180.00 leva.  |                                            |
| (["2000","Winter","13"])  | Yes! You have 50.00 leva left.           |                                            |

### Journey

	Strangely, most people plan their holidays early. A young programmer has a certain budget and free time
	in a given season. Write a function that gets the budget and the season and outputs where the programmer
	will vacation and how much he will spend.The budget determines the destination, and the season determines 
	how much of the budget will be spent. If it's summer it will vacation at a campground and winter at a hotel.
	If it's in Europe, regardless of the season he'll vacation in a hotel. Each campsite or hotel, depending on 
	the destination, has its own price that corresponds to a certain percentage of the budget: 
	⦁ At 100BGN or less - somewhere in Bulgaria
	⦁ Summer - 30% of the budget
	⦁ Winter - 70% of budget
	⦁ At 1000lv. or less - somewhere in the Balkans
	⦁ Summer - 40% of the budget
	⦁ Winter - 80% of the budget
	⦁ At more than 1000lv - somewhere in Europe
	⦁ When travelling around Europe, regardless of the season, will spend 90% of the budget.
	Input
	2 arguments are accepted :
	⦁ First- Budget, a real number in the range [10.00...5000.00].
	⦁ Second- One of two possible seasons: "summer" or "winter"
	Output
	Two lines should be printed on the console.
	⦁ First line - "Somewhere in [destination]" from among "Bulgaria", "Balkans" and "Europe"
	⦁ Second line - "{Vacation type} - {Amount spent}"
	⦁ Holiday can be between "Camp" and "Hotel"
	⦁ The amount must be rounded to the second decimal place.

*Sample input and output*

| Input	                 | Output                                |
| :----                  | :----                                 |
| (["50", "summer"])     | Somewhere in Bulgaria Camp - 15.00    |
| (["75", "winter"])     | Somewhere in Bulgaria Hotel - 52.50   |
| (["312", "summer"])    | Somewhere in Balkans  Camp - 124.80   |
| (["678.53", "winter"]) | Somewhere in Balkans  Hotel - 542.82  |
| (["1500", "summer"])   | Somewhere in Europe   Hotel - 1350.00 |


### Operations between numbers

	Write a function that gets two integers (N1 and N2) and an operator to perform a mathematical
	operation on them. The possible operations are Addition(+), Subtraction(-), Multiplication(\*), 
	Division(/) and Modular division(%). When adding, subtracting and multiplying the console should
	print the result and whether it is even or odd. In ordinary division, the result. In modular 
	division, the remainder. It should be kept in mind that the divisor can be equal to 0(zero), 
	and zero is not divisible. In this case a special message must be printed.
	Input
	3 arguments are accepted,:
	⦁ N1 - integer in the range [0...40 000]
	⦁ N2 - integer in the range [0...40 000]
	⦁ Operator - one character among "+", "-", "*", "/", "%"
	Output
	Print a line on the console:
	⦁ If the operation is addition, subtraction or multiplication:
	⦁ "{N1} {operator} {N2} = {result} - {even/odd}"
	⦁ If the operation is division:
	⦁ "{N1} / {N2} = {result}" - the result is formatted to the second decimal place
	⦁ If the operation is modular division: 
	⦁ "{N1} % {N2} = {result}"
	⦁ In case of division by 0(zero): 
	⦁ "Cannot divide {N1} by zero"


*Sample input and output*

| Input	             | Output                    |
| :---               | :---                      |
| (["10","12","+"])  | 10 + 12 = 22 - even	 |
| (["123","12","/"]) | 123 / 12 = 10.25	         |
| (["112","0","/"])  | Cannot divide 112 by zero |
| (["10","1","-"])   | 10 – 1 = 9 - odd	         |
| (["10","3","%"])   | 10 % 3 = 1	         |
| (["10","0","%"])   | Cannot divide 10 by zero  |
| (["7","3","\*"])   | 7 * 3 = 21 - odd          |

 
### Hotel room

	The hotel offers 2 types of rooms: studio and apartment. Write a function that calculates the price 
	for the whole stay for studio and suite. The prices depend on the month of stay:
	May and October June and September July and August
	Studio - 50 BGN/night Studio - 75.20 BGN/night Studio - 76 BGN/night
	Apartment - 65 BGN/night Apartment - 68.70 BGN/night Apartment - 77 BGN/night
	The following discounts are also available:
	⦁ For studio, for more than 7 nights in May and October : 5% discount.
	⦁ For studio, for more than 14 nights in May and October : 30% discount.
	⦁ For a studio, for more than 14 nights in June and September : 20% discount.
	⦁ For an apartment, for more than 14 nights, regardless of the month : 10% discount.
	Input
	You get 2 arguments:
	⦁ the month - May, June, July, August, September or October
	⦁ number of nights - integer in the range [0 ... 200]
	Exit
	Print 2 lines on the console:
	⦁ On the first line: "Apartment: {price for the whole stay} lv."
	⦁ On the second line: "Studio: {price for the whole stay} lv."
	Price for the entire stay formatted to two decimal places.
	
*Sample input and output*

| Input	             | Output                                   | Explanations |
| :---               | :---                                     | :---         |
| (["May","15"])     | Apartment: 877.50 lv. Studio: 525.00 lv. | In May, for more than 14 nights, we reduce the price of the studio by 30% (50 - 15 = 35) and the apartment - by 10% (65 - 6.5 =58.5). The entire stay in the apartment - 877.50 BGN. The whole stay in a studio - 525.00 BGN. |
| (["June","14"])    | Apartment: 961.80 lv. Studio: 1052.80 lv.	                                            |
| (["August","20"])  | Apartment: 1386.00 lv. Studio: 1520.00 lv.                                                   |


### In time for the exam

	A student has to go to an exam at a certain time (for example at 9:30). He/she comes to the examination
	hall at a given arrival time (e.g. 9:40). A student is considered on time if he/she arrives at the time 
	of the exam or up to half an hour before. If he/she arrived more than 30 minutes early, he/she is tardy. 
	If he arrived after the exam time, he was late. Write a function that gets the exam time and arrival 
	time and prints whether the student arrived on time, whether he was early or late, and by how many hours
	or minutes he was early or late.
	Input
	4 arguments are accepted:
	⦁ The first contains the time of the exam, an integer from 0 to 23.
	⦁ The second contains the minute of the exam - an integer from 0 to 59.
	⦁ The third contains the time of arrival, an integer from 0 to 23.
	⦁ The fourth contains the minute of arrival, an integer from 0 to 59.
	Output
	On the first line print:
	⦁ "Late" if the student arrives later than the exam time.
	⦁ "On time" if the student arrives exactly at the exam time or up to 30 minutes early.
	⦁ "Early" if the student arrives more than 30 minutes before the exam time.
	If the student arrives at least one minute behind the exam time, print on the next line:
	⦁ "mm minutes before start" for arriving less than 1 minute early.
	⦁ "hh:mm hours before the start" for being 1 hour or more late. Always print minutes in 2 digits, e.g. "1:05".
	⦁ "mm minutes after the start" for a delay of less than an hour.
	⦁ "hh:mm hours after the start" for a delay of 1 hour or more. Always print minutes in 2 digits, e.g. "1:03".
	
*Sample input and output*

| Input                   | Output                                |
| :---                    | :---                                  |
| (["9","30","9","50"])   | Late - 20 minutes after the start     |
| (["9","00","10","30"])  | Late - 1:30 hours after the start     |
| (["10","00","10","00"]) | On time                               |
| (["9","00","8","30"])	  | On time - 30 minutes before the start |	
| (["14","00","13","55"]) | On time - 5 minutes before the start  |
| (["11","30","10","55"]) | Early - 35 minutes before the start   |
| (["16","00","15","00"]) | Early - 1:00 hours before the start   |
| (["11","30","8","12"])  | Early - 3:18 hours before the start	  | 	
| (["11","30","12","29"]) | Late - 59 minutes after the start     |


### Ski holiday

	Atanas decides to spend his vacation in Bansko and ski. Before he goes, however, he has to book a hotel
	and calculate how much his stay will cost. The following types of rooms are available, with the following
	prices per stay:
	⦁ "room for one person" - BGN 18.00 per night
	⦁ "apartment" - 25.00 BGN per night 
	⦁ "president apartment" - 35.00 BGN per night
	Depending on the number of days he will stay at the hotel (example: 11 days = 10 nights) and the type of 
	room he will choose, he can enjoy a different discount. 
	The discounts are as follows:
	room type less than 10 days between 10 and 15 days more than 15 days
	room for one person no discount no discount no discount no discount
	apartment 30% of the final price 35% of the final price 50% of the final price
	president apartment 10% of final price 15% of final price 20% of final price
	After the stay, Atanas's evaluation of the hotel services can be positive or negative. If his assessment is
	positive, Atanas adds 25% of the price to the price with the discount already deducted. If his evaluation is
	negative he deducts 10% from the price.
	Input
	The input is read from the console and consists of three lines:
	⦁ First line - days to stay - integer in the range [0...365]
	⦁ Second line - room type - "room for one person", "apartment" or "president apartment"
	⦁ Third line - rating - "positive" or "negative"
	Output
	One line should be printed on the console:
	⦁ The price for his stay at the hotel, formatted to the second decimal place.
	
*Sample input and output*

| Input	                          | Output | Обяснения |
| :---                            | :---   | :---      |   
| (["14","apartment","positive"]) | 264.06 | 14 дни => 13 нощувки => 13 * 25.00 = 325 лв. 10 < 13 дни < 15 => 325 – 35%= 211.25 лв. Оценката е positive => 211.25 + 25% = 264.0625 -> 264.06 лв.|
|(["30","president apartment","negative"])  | 730.80 |	
|(["12","room for one person","positive"])  | 247.50 |	
|(["2","apartment","positive"])	            | 21.88  |

